h2. Summary

This is a repo intended for use as a template for your wordpress projects.

h2. Setup

For this example, we'll assume your GitHub username is @johndoe@ and you wanted to setup a WordPress blog at @johndoe.example.com@:

* "Fork":http://github.com/jestro/wordpress-capistrano/fork this repo
* Make your project private, and rename it your project name. Say, @johndoe_blog@, for example.
* Clone your fresh repo into the @wp-content@ folder of your local wordpress install:

<pre>
  <code>
    cd LOCAL_WORDPRESS_INSTALL
    rm -rf wp-content
    git clone git@github.com:johndoe/johndoe_blog.git wp-content
    cd wp-content
  </code>
</pre>

* Adjust the settings in @Capfile@

<code>
  <pre>
    #the domain name for the server you'll be running wordpress on
    set :domain, "johndoe.example.com"

    #the name of this wordpress project
    set :application, "johndoe_blog"

    #your repo
    set :repository,  "git@github.com:johndoe/johndoe_blog.git"
  </pre>
</code>

Once all that's done, commit and push it back to GitHub. Then hack on your WordPress theme and drop your plugins as normal, committing and pushing as you go.

h3. Setting up a LAMP Stack on a CentOS 5.2 Server

Once you're ready to rock, pick up a server from Slicehost or something.

* @cap setup:server@
** You'll first be prompted for your @root@ password
** A bunch of stuff will get installed. Go get a beer. Don't worry, you can bill your client for this - you're &lgt;airqotes&rgt;busy setting up their server&lgt;/airqotes&rgt;
** After lots of installing of lots of stuff, you'll be asked for a couple things:
*** A new password for your @root@ user
*** A password for the newly created @wordpress@ user
*** A password for the @root@ account of MySQL
* Once, that's done, an SSH key will be generated for you. Add this key to your account GitHub project (see http://github.com/guides/understanding-deploy-keys for why we reccomend this instead of a 'deploy key').

h3. To setup WordPress on your server

* @cap setup:wordpress@

** You'll first be prompted for your @wordpress@ user's password.
** You'll then be prompted for a database name, username, and password for this WordPress site. This database will be created and @wp-config.php@ setup for you. You'll be prompted for the password for the @root@ account of MySQL before to run this command.

h3. To deploy your WordPress site to your server

* @cap deploy@

That's it, seriously. Hit the server url you setup in your @Capfile@, and run through the WordPress install process! If you update your themes / plugins, just commit and push them to GitHub, then run @cap deploy@ again!